Today's Tanys (ch 37) talks about each prohibition associates with a particular blood vessel of ours, which will draw energy from the negative if we transgress.

And it talks about the journey of the combined Neshama (that made up of the 600K individual souls) seeking to perform every Mitzvah and thus do the refinement.

I know within myself there are some prohibitions that are easy to keep and some positive commandments that are easy and pleasant to do. And there are some that feel hard and maybe even foreign.

Perhaps the easy ones, I am the beneficiary of previous progress. Perhaps my ancesorts and other Jews already battled and won in these areas, so I have inherited the "ease" there - kind of like the peace time generation enjoys the peace won by their parents and grandparents.

And this puts me in the place to do the battles that I must do - to overcome the temptations and limitations that do apply to me - and that by doing so I may refine things both for my downstream generations and perhaps for others. If I can find how to win over some of these things and how to replicate this win, then I can move these problems into the "solved" category.

Rather than seeing my challenges as ones that I happen to face on my journey to some ideal state, I can see them as ones that are specifically chosen for me to contribute to solving. That my very act of engaging and battling these things is my work rather than a distraction from this work.

And that if I can overcome them in myself, perhaps I will be in position to helpothers overcome them "at scale." From this perspective, I should enjoy and appreciate especially where my set of challenges seems unique and where I do not necessarily have a set path to follow.
