Deep down, we know what is the right thing. Or maybe some people don't - but that's not relatable to me - not the problem I am trying to solve for myself.

My problem is that there's a deep gulf between what I deep down believe to be right and what I end up doing at a given moment. The eternal example is - you can know about the importance of exercise and still not end up exercising for months or years.

The excuse we give ourselves is that we're too busy. But a quick daily or weekly retrospective usually shows that a lot of what got done is not as important as what didn't get done. I bet for most of us, the amount of time spent on social media and TV outweighs the time spent on exercise or self-development, even though most of us would rank those things higher.

One reason this happens is that these distractions tug harder at our attention and they are easy to access. I would probably work out more if an exercise partner kept showing up at my house saying "let's go!" But usually what shows up is more like the social media notification, or the mental voice saying "you need a break, go waste time."

I personally found that the periods of my life where my ratio of valuable to wasted time is highest is when I am in "a system" that happens to align to that value. I have little children and they make their needs very obvious, so I spend a lot of time with my children, which is awesome. They naturally direct my attention to where it needs to go (that's not to claim I spend my time with my children optimally, but that I am not ignoring them to be on facebook.)

Likewise, I was the most fit when a trainer expected me to show up for our apointment, and I learned a lot when I was in a graduate program that expected my attendance and participation. On the flip side, absent those 'expectations' makes it that much harder to do the valuable activity. 

This very dynamic indicates how much flexibility in how we spend our time. When the trainer expects us, we work out. When the teacher expects us, we attend. And yet when it's "only" us expecting something of ourselves, it is much harder to keep and much easier to break, those commitments.

So like I said, there's a big gap between what I know I should do and what I am doing and that's a huge problem but also an opportunity. Would life be incrementally or exponentially better if each moment was directed to its highest potential?

One beauty of religion is that if you accept the existance and supremacy of G-d, it implies that He has created you for a purpose and has expectations of you. And you already have a rough sense of what G-d would like you to be doing. On the things we talked about, G-d would rather you spend time with your children, cultivate your health and develop your mind - versus squander your time idly. I think we know this quite clearly.

Hopefully this is a temporary point in time. Logically, if you don't trust G-d, if you percieve yourself to be on your own to engage with the entire world, then you have to evaluate everything that flies at you over time. There's a mental voice that says "work out" and one that says "sit on the couch" and you have to evaluate them both (this is a silly example but that's how it works - everything that comes up gets a vote in what you pay attention to.)

And objectively we're not great at filtering out the right signals because empirically we sit on the couch a lot more than we work out. It seems like "externalizing" our values works very well. When a trainer is waiting, the "work out" voice is a lot louder than "sit on the couch" voice. Maybe we're just wired to not operate alone, to seek signal in the presence and expectations of others.

This is where the leap from "I believe in G-d" to knowing what it means for me is key. The absolutely astonishing thing is that your deepest values resonate with what G-d wants from you (because at your deep core, your soul is from G-d) and it's important to recognize that it's not just "you against the world" with those things, but "you and G-d together" and then the "against the world" part doesn't even make sense because G-d has sovereignty over all that stuff.

So G-d is sort of your trainer - he knows what you are capable of and he knows what's good for you, all you have to do is trust him and show up.





















